## The proposal to upgrade the Comdex-1 chain (Comdex Mainnet), adding new on-chain modules, AuthZ, ICA, Fee grant, IBC upgrade to v3.3.0. 

## Below are the new on chain costume module:

### Asset Module: 
The x/asset module includes asset creation and asset pair creation.

### Vault Module: 
The vault module manages and stores the creation of vaults.

### Locker Module: 
The Locker module allows a token holder to earn variable interest on their principal by locking their tokens into the Locker vault within the protocol. 

### TokenMint Module: 
This module is used to mint tokens on a platform.

### Rewards Module: 
Enables rewards on Liquidity Pools on AMMs and comodo.

### Collector Module: 
Collector module is where all the fees and income generated from the protocol will accumulate.

### Liquidation Module: 
This triggers the liquidation of an asset if the Collateralization Ratio goes below the Liquidation ratio.

### Band Oracle Module: 
The band oracle module fetches the prices of assets.

### Market Module: 
A Market acts as a bridge between Real World Data and Blockchains.

### Auction Module: 
This allows the platform to auction off the liquidated assets.

### Liquidity Module: 
This module enables users on Comdex to Swap, transfer, and pool assets.

### ESM: 
Emergency Shutdown is triggered in the case of serious emergencies, such as long-term market irrationality, hacks, or security breaches.


### Read more about the above modules on: 

https://docs.harborprotocol.one/

https://docs.commodo.one/

https://docs.cswap.one/
