---
title: comdex TestNet Upgrade
---
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
# comdex TestNet 2 Upgrade Instructions

The following document describes the necessary steps involved that validators and full node operators
must take in order to upgrade from `comdex-test2` to `comdex-test3`. The comdex teams
will post an official `comdex-test3` genesis file, but it is recommended that validators
execute the following instructions in order to verify the resulting genesis file.

This indicates that the upgrade procedure should be performed on or after `June 2, 2023 at 18:00  UTC (Upgrade height 2862320)`.

# Summary

The comdex-test2 will undergo a scheduled upgrade to comdex-test3 on Jun 2, 2023 at 18:00  UTC.

The following is a short summary of the upgrade steps:
    1. Stopping the running comdex v11.0.0 instance
    1. Backing up configs, data, and keys used for running comdex-test2
    1. Resetting state to clear the local comdex-test2 state
    1. Copying the comdex-test3 genesis file to the comdex config folder (either after migrating an existing comdex-test2 genesis export, or downloading the comdex-test3 genesis from the mainnet github)
    1. Installing the comdex v11.3.0 release
    1. Starting the comdex v11.3.0 instance to resume the comdex test chain at a height of <comdex height> + 1.

Specific instructions for validators are available in [Upgrade Procedure](#upgrade-procedure),
and specific instructions for full node operators are available in [Guidance for Full Node Operators](#guidance-for-full-node-operators).


The network upgrade can take the following potential pathways:

1. Happy path: Validator successfully migrates the comdex-test2 genesis file to a comdex-test3 genesis file, and the validator can successfully start comdex with the comdex-test3 genesis within 1-2 hours of the scheduled upgrade.
2. Not-so-happy path: Validators have trouble migrating the comdex-test2 genesis to a comdex-test3 genesis, but can obtain the genesis file from the Comdex mainnet github repo and can successfully start comdex within 1-2 hours of the scheduled upgrade.  
3. Abort path: In the rare event that the team becomes aware of critical issues, which result in an unsuccessful migration within a few hours, the upgrade will be announced as aborted and validators will need to resume running comdex-test2 network without any updates or changes.


Validators should expect that at least 16GB of RAM needs to be provisioned to process the first new block on comdex-test3.


## Risks

As a validator performing the upgrade procedure on your consensus nodes carries a heightened risk of
double-signing and being slashed. The most important piece of this procedure is verifying your
software version and genesis file hash before starting your validator and signing.

The riskiest thing a validator can do is discover that they made a mistake and repeat the upgrade
procedure again during the network startup. If you discover a mistake in the process, the best thing
to do is wait for the network to start before correcting it. If the network is halted and you have
started with a different genesis file than the expected one, seek advice from a Tendermint developer
before resetting your validator.

## Recovery

Prior to exporting `comdex-test2` state, validators are encouraged to take a full data snapshot at the
export height before proceeding. Snapshotting depends heavily on infrastructure, but generally this
can be done by backing up the `.comdex` directory.

It is critically important to back-up the `.comdex/data/priv_validator_state.json` file after stopping your comdex process. This file is updated every block as your validator participates in a consensus rounds. It is a critical file needed to prevent double-signing, in case the upgrade fails and the previous chain needs to be restarted.

In the event that the upgrade does not succeed, validators and operators must downgrade back to
comdex v11.0.0 and restore to their latest snapshot before restarting their nodes.

## Upgrade Procedure

__Note__: It is assumed you are currently operating a full-node running comdex v11.0.0.

The version/commit hash of comdex v11.0.0: `20a7735e35f7361db374edde9d71c014e4772513`

1. Verify you are currently running the correct version (v11.0.0) of comdex:

   ```bash
    $ comdex version --long
    name: comdex
    server_name: comdex
    client_name: Comdexcli
    version: 11.0.0
    commit: 20a7735e35f7361db374edde9d71c014e4772513
    build_tags: netgo,ledger
    go: go version go1.15 darwin/amd64
   ```

2. Make sure your chain halts at the right height:
    Update halt-height in app.toml to 2862320

3. After the chain has halted, make a backup of your `.comdex` directory

    __NOTE__: It is recommended for validators and operators to take a full data snapshot at the export
   height before proceeding in case the upgrade does not go as planned or if not enough voting power
   comes online in a sufficient and agreed upon amount of time. In such a case, the chain will fallback
   to continue operating `comdex-test2`. See [Recovery](#recovery) for details on how to proceed.

4. Export existing state from `comdex-test2`:

   Before exporting state via the following command, the `comdex` binary must be stopped!
   As a validator, you can see the last block height created in the
   `~/.comdex/data/priv_validator_state.json` - or now residing in `comdex_backup` when you made
    a backup as in the last step - and obtain it with

   ```bash
   cat ~/.comdex/data/priv_validator_state.json | jq '.height'

   Output : height": "2862320"
   ```

   ```bash
   comdex export --height=2862320 > comdex_test_2_genesis_export.json
   ```

   _this might take a while, you can expect an hour for this step_

5. Verify the SHA256 of the (sorted) exported genesis file:

    Compare this value with other validators / full node operators of the network.
    Going forward it will be important that all parties can create the same genesis file export.

   ```bash
   $ jq -S -c -M '' comdex_test_2_genesis_export.json | shasum -a 256
   
   Ouput: [SHA256_VALUE]  ae70d413059ed2d9036c1134a49b7840d69115ef55b4b9f0a56585acf0bf5070
   ```

6. Cross check your genesis hash with other peers (other validators).

   __NOTE__: Go [1.19+](https://golang.org/dl/) is required!

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/comdex-official/comdex.git && cd comdex && git checkout v11.3.0; make install
   ```

7. Verify you are currently running the correct version (v11.3.0) of the _Comdex_:

   ```bash
    name: comdex
    server_name: comdex
    version: 11.3.0
    commit: 1a1f5c496b24c809507a29cc7b4ecdcf8a7df3cc
    build_tags: netgo,ledger
    ...
   ```

    The version/commit hash of comdex v11.3.0: `1a1f5c496b24c809507a29cc7b4ecdcf8a7df3cc`

8. Migrate exported state from the current v11.0.0 version to the new v11.3.0 version:

   ```bash
   comdex migrate-store v11.3.0 comdex_test_2_genesis_export.json --chain-id=comdex-test3 2>&1 | tee genesis.json
   ```

   This will migrate our exported state into the required `genesis.json` file to start the comdex-test3.

9. Verify the SHA256 of the final genesis JSON:

   ```bash
   $ jq -S -c -M '' genesis.json | shasum -a 256

   Output : [SHA256_VALUE]  0902d507eeb852c4c5293fb9482282c48b18e1b278e76750e8c134cffed2ff65
   ```

    Compare this value with other validators / full node operators of the network.
    It is important that each party can reproduce the same genesis.json file from the steps accordingly.

10. Reset state:

   __NOTE__: Be sure you have a complete backed up state and priv_validator_key.json of your node before proceeding with this step.
   See [Recovery](#recovery) for details on how to proceed.

   ```bash
   comdex tendermint unsafe-reset-all
   ```

11. Move the new `genesis.json` to your `.comdex/config/` directory

    ```bash
    cp genesis.json ~/.comdex/config/
    ```

12. Copy your priv_validator_key.json to  ~/.comdex/config/
   ```bash
    cp <COMDEX BACKUP FOLDER>/priv_validator_key.json ~/.comdex/config/
   ```

13. Before Starting the node Update halt-height in app.toml to 0

14. Start your blockchain

    ```bash
    comdex start
    ```

    Automated audits of the genesis state can take 30-120 min using the crisis module. This can be disabled by
    `comdex start --x-crisis-skip-assert-invariants`.

# Guidance for Full Node Operators

1. Verify you are currently running the correct version (v11.0.0) of _comdex_:

   ```bash
    $ comdex version --long
    name: comdex
    server_name: comdex
    client_name: Comdexcli
    version: 11.0.0
    commit: 20a7735e35f7361db374edde9d71c014e4772513
    build_tags: netgo,ledger
    go: go version go1.15 darwin/amd64
   ```

2. Stop your comdex v11.0.0 instance.

3. After the chain has halted, make a backup of your `.comdex` directory

   ```bash
   mv ~/.comdex ./comdex_backup
   ```

   __NOTE__: It is recommended for validators and operators to take a full data snapshot at the export
   height before proceeding in case the upgrade does not go as planned or if not enough voting power
   comes online in a sufficient and agreed upon amount of time.
   In such a case, the chain will fallback
   to continue operating `comdex-test2`. See [Recovery](#recovery) for details on how to proceed.


4. Install v11.3.0 of [comdex](https://github.com/cosmos/comdex).

   __NOTE__: Go [1.19+](https://golang.org/dl/) is required!

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/comdex-official/comdex.git && cd comdex && git checkout v11.3.0; make install
   ```

5. Verify you are currently running the correct version (v11.3.0) of the _Comdex_:
   
   ```bash
    name: comdex
    server_name: comdex
    version: 11.3.0
    commit: 1a1f5c496b24c809507a29cc7b4ecdcf8a7df3cc
    build_tags: netgo,ledger
    ...
   ```

   The version/commit hash of comdex v11.3.0: `1a1f5c496b24c809507a29cc7b4ecdcf8a7df3cc`

6. Reset state:

   __NOTE__: Be sure you have a complete backed up state of your node before proceeding with this step.
   See [Recovery](#recovery) for details on how to proceed.

   ```bash
   comdex tendermint unsafe-reset-all
   ```

7. Download the comdex-test3 genesis.json from github

   ```
   wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/comdex-official/networks/main/testnet/testnet-3/genesis.json
   ```

8. Move the new `genesis.json` to your `.comdex/config/` directory

    ```bash
    cp genesis.json ~/.comdex/config/
    ```

9. Start your blockchain

    ```bash
    comdex start
    ```

   Automated audits of the genesis state can take 30-120 min using the crisis module. This can be disabled by
   `comdex start --x-crisis-skip-assert-invariants`.

## Notes for Service Providers

# REST server

In case you have been running REST server with the command `Comdexcli rest-server` previously, running this command will not be necessary anymore.
API server is now in-process with daemon and can be enabled/disabled by API configuration in your `.comdex/config/app.toml`:

```
[api]
# Enable defines if the API server should be enabled.
enable = false
# Swagger defines if swagger documentation should automatically be registered.
swagger = false
```

`swagger` setting refers to enabling/disabling swagger docs API, i.e, /swagger/ API endpoint.

# gRPC Configuration

gRPC configuration in your `.comdex/config/app.toml`

```yaml
[grpc]
# Enable defines if the gRPC server should be enabled.
enable = true
# Address defines the gRPC server address to bind to.
address = "0.0.0.0:9090"
```

# State Sync

State Sync Configuration in your `.comdex/config/app.toml`

```yaml
# State sync snapshots allow other nodes to rapidly join the network without replaying historical
# blocks, instead downloading and applying a snapshot of the application state at a given height.
[state-sync]
# snapshot-interval specifies the block interval at which local state sync snapshots are
# taken (0 to disable). Must be a multiple of pruning-keep-every.
snapshot-interval = 0
# snapshot-keep-recent specifies the number of recent snapshots to keep and serve (0 to keep all).
snapshot-keep-recent = 2
```

<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->